Document:System Requirement Specification Document

Title:-
Bookmymovie

Team:-
Direct Customer,Viewer,Business Analyst,Technical Team,Designing Team,System Analyst,Customer Relationship Team,Production house,Theatre owner,staff.

Objective(purpose):-
Bookmymovie is a booking system for customers,and is intended to provide a complete solution for customers through the internet. It will allow customers to book/view tickets of a movie virtually and get the ticket online without visiting the movie ticket counters. 

Scope:-
This system allows users to view show availability ,seat availability ,choose show’s date and time,nearby multiplexes,view movie details using web application.Customer will be able to cancel tickets from 2 hours of booking.

Definitions:-

SSL : Secure socket layer


Requirements:

Functional Requirements:-
User will be able to view movie details,
User will be able to view movie date and timings,movie runtime duration,
can also be able to view movie cast,movie ratings anonymously.
Users can filter movies by genre,movie cast,ratings,new release,languages.

The system should allow users to register and login to their accounts.
The system should confirm the booking and provide a booking reference number and confirmation email  and SMS to the user.


Registered customers will be able to book movie tickets/cancel movie tickets,choose between available seats and will be able to give reviews only after booking tickets,give feedback about services provided by multiplex management.
Registered users can edit their profile details accordingly. 
Registered users can securely make payments using multiple payment options.

Theatre staff must be registered.
Theatre staff can add or remove new movies.
Theatre staff can change movie timing, screening of movies to other screens.
Theatre staff can change the cost of movie tickets according to requirement. 
 
Owner can view weekly,monthly collections of particular movies.
Owners can observe the growth pattern of their theatre.


Non-functional Requirements:-
Security
 Registered Customers will be allowed to book tickets.	
 Each stakeholder will be able to access the system  through the authentication process. 
 System will provide access to  the content , operations using Role based security           
 (Authorization) (Permissions based on Role)
 Using SSL in all transactions  which will be performed by the stakeholder. 
 It would protect confidential information shared by the system to stakeholders.
 System will automatically log off all stakeholders after some time due to inactiveness.
 System will block operations for inactive  stakeholders and would redirect for authentication.
 System  will internally maintain secure communication channel between Servers ( Web    
 Servers, App Servers, database Server)
 Sensitive data will always be encrypted across communication.
 User proper firewall to protect servers from outside fishing, vulnerable attacks.

Maintainability:
1.A Commercial database software will be used to maintain System data Persistence.
2.A ready-made Web Server will be installed to host an online booking portal (Web Site) to manage server capabilities.
3.IT operations team will easily monitor and configure the System using Administrative tools provided by Servers.
4.Separate environment will be maintained for the system.

Portability:
1.PDA: Portable Device Application
2.System will provide a portable User Interface ( HTML, CSS, JS) through which users will be able to   access online booking portals.
3.System can be deployed to single server, multi server, to any OS, Cloud (Azure or AWS or GCP)


Accessibility:
1.Only registered customers will be able to book a ticket after authentication.
2.BOD team will be able to view daily, weekly, monthly, annual business Growth through a customised dashboard.
3.User will be able to see their ticket details.


Durability:
System will implement backup and recovery for retaining stake holders data, business operation data and business data over time.

Efficiency:
During hyped movie release,a large number of users will be able to book tickets successfully with the same response time and also can view tickets. 
System will be able to manage all transactions successfully.

Scalability:

The system will be able to provide visitors, lag free environment for booking and modification of  movie tickets irrespective of the load.


Safety:
Booking application will be secure from malicious attack, fishing.
Booking application  functionalities are protected from outside with proper firewall configuration.
Booking application will always be kept updated with the latest anti virus software.
Business data will be backed up periodically to ensure safety of data using incremental backup strategy.
Role based security will be applied for Application data and operations accessibility.
